OTTAWA, Canada (AP) — The Canadian government announced on Friday that it will be launching a new initiative aimed at promoting sustainable energy and reducing the country's carbon footprint.

According to Environment Minister Jonathan Wilkinson, the initiative will involve a number of measures designed to help Canada meet its climate goals. "We know that we need to take urgent action to combat climate change, and this new initiative is a crucial step in that direction," said Wilkinson.

The initiative will be called the "Clean Energy Transition Plan," and it will involve a number of measures aimed at promoting the use of renewable energy sources like wind and solar power, as well as encouraging Canadians to make their homes and businesses more energy-efficient.

One of the key elements of the plan will be the creation of a new fund aimed at supporting the development of new renewable energy projects across the country. The fund, which will be called the "Clean Energy Fund," will provide financial support to renewable energy developers, with the goal of helping to accelerate the deployment of new clean energy technologies.

In addition to the Clean Energy Fund, the government will also be introducing a number of new tax incentives designed to encourage Canadians to invest in renewable energy projects. These incentives will include a new tax credit for individuals who install solar panels on their homes, as well as a new tax deduction for businesses that invest in clean energy technologies.

Another key element of the Clean Energy Transition Plan will be the establishment of a new federal agency dedicated to promoting the use of clean energy technologies. The agency, which will be called the "Clean Energy Agency," will work closely with provincial and territorial governments to develop and implement policies designed to promote the use of renewable energy sources.

The Clean Energy Transition Plan has been welcomed by environmental groups, who say that it represents an important step forward in the fight against climate change. "We're pleased to see the government taking action on climate change," said John Bennett, Senior Policy Advisor for the Sierra Club of Canada. "This initiative will help to reduce Canada's carbon footprint and promote the use of clean, renewable energy."

However, some critics have raised concerns about the potential costs of the initiative. According to the Canadian Taxpayers Federation, the Clean Energy Transition Plan could end up costing Canadians billions of dollars in additional taxes and fees. "We're all for protecting the environment, but we need to be careful not to burden taxpayers with excessive costs," said Aaron Wudrick, Federal Director of the Canadian Taxpayers Federation.

Despite these concerns, the government says that the Clean Energy Transition Plan represents a necessary step in the fight against climate change. "We know that the costs of inaction on climate change will be far greater than the costs of taking action," said Wilkinson. "That's why we're committed to moving forward with this important initiative."